---
title: "CyberSecurity"
date: "2023-01-03"
description: "Basic CyberSecurity concepts, mantras, terms and tools."
language: "Security"
categories: ["Security"]
---

## Mantras

- Trust, but verify.
- Stop.Think.Connect.
- If you see something, say something.

## Terms

**Phishing**: A technique for attempting to acquire sensitive data, such as bank account numbers, through a fraudulent solicitation in email or on a web site, in which the perpetrator masquerades as a legitimate business or reputable person.

**Malware**: Software or firmware intended to perform an unauthorized process that will have an adverse impact on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system. A virus, worm, Trojan horse, or other code-based entity that infects a host. Spyware and some forms of adware are also examples of malicious code.

**Ransomware**: A type of malicious software designed to block access to a computer system until a sum of money is paid.

**Business Email Compromise**: An exploit in which an attacker obtains access to a business email account and imitates the owner's identity, in order to defraud the company and its employees, customers or partners.

**Internet of Things**: The interconnection via the Internet of computing devices embedded in everyday objects, enabling them to send and receive data.

### Windows Built-in Security Tools

- The Control Panel
- Computer Management
- Local Security Policies

### Other Tools

- Sysinternals Suite
- Windows God Mode
- NMap
- 7-Zip
